Welcome to the
Core Audio Technologies session.
I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm Apple's USB and FireWire evangelist.
My role in evangelism is to help,
primarily,
developers bring products to the Mac,
and audio is a special favorite of mine,
so I'm pleased to help introduce
the audio folks here today.
One of the things -- of all the things
we're going to talk about today,
I think you'll find the 3D
audio stuff that we've been
working on pretty exciting.
We'll also go into the MIDI aspects of
Core Audio and the multichannel reverb.
So with that, let me bring up Jeff.
Thank you very much.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jeff Moore.
I'm an engineer with
the Core Audio Group.
And today I'm going to tell you
a little bit about how to use
the AudioConverter API in the
Core Audio -- in the Audio Toolbox.
So the AudioConvertor API is
for transforming audio data in
one format into another format.
We provide converters for
doing rate conversion,
integer to floating point,
floating point to integer,
interleaving and deinterleaving
of multichannel data,
and of course,
encoding and decoding nonlinear PCM data.
So the,
first I want to get into a little bit
of how audio formats are described.
The way we describe formats is common
throughout all of the Core Audio APIs,
so having a good grounding
here will help you when you get
into the more advanced APIs.
The basic structure for
encapsulating format information is
the AudioStream Basic Description.
It has fields for
describing the sample rate,
the 4-care code, format ID,
some flags to identify
to specialize the format,
and a bunch of other information
that's important to know:
how big the data is,
what its channelization is like,
and other information about
how to process the data.
In Core Audio,
we use 32-bit floating-point numbers
as the canonical linear PCM format.
In general,
what you'll find is that everything
goes to 32-bit float and then from
there back into some other format.
And like I said,
both interleaved and non-interleaved
multichannel data is fully supported.
So you can take a buffer full of
interleaved stereo and split it into two
monobuffers or put them back together,
whatever your needs are.
So new in the AudioConverter and Jaguar
is support for encoded audio formats.
And what I mean by encoded formats
are formats that are not linear PCM.
Examples of this are MP3 data, AAC data,
AU, IMA, all sorts of stuff that is
grouped together in -- that
can't be separated apart.
Encoded formats are typically dealt
with in terms of packets of data
instead of in terms of frames,
like linear PCM data is.
This means that you will be getting
chunks of data that contain a certain
number of frames of audio data in them.
[Transcript missing]
and David And then when you start
talking about the MPEG-4 formats,
you're going to start seeing that even
more external description in terms of
how the packets are broken up is also
required to fully describe the data.
And all the APIs that we've added
to the AudioConverter and Jaguar
fully support these mechanisms.
So, first thing you want to need
to know is how to create and
configure an AudioConverter to
do what it is you want to do.
So, here you see the way you do it.
You basically just fill
out the input format,
you fill out the output format,
and then you call AudioConverter new.
And if there is a translation
that can be built from your input
format to your output format,
the converter will create it
for you and configure it and be
ready to go to a certain extent.
Next,
once you have the converter created,
some formats of data,
particularly encoded formats of data,
require some external
configuration information.
In the API,
we've turned this the magic cookie
because the data is wholly private to the
format and should under no circumstances
be looked at by the application.
You won't understand it anyway.
So,
and the way you tell the converter about
the magic cookie for the format you're
encoding or decoding is quite simple.
You just call AudioConverterSetProperty
with the CodecParameters property.
And it'll just get handed off to
the appropriate encoder or decoder
depending on the task you have at hand.
So there are other configuration
parameters that you can change about your
AudioConverter while you're doing it.
One of the most common ones that
you want to play with is changing
the algorithm for rate conversion.
Now, you want to do this for
a variety of reasons.
You want to trade quality for
performance in a lot of cases,
like in a game or something.
And then you -- or in some cases,
you may want the best quality possible.
So here we see an example of
setting the Converter Rate Converter
algorithm to the polyphase,
which is the highest quality rate
converter algorithm we support.
Again,
it shows up in the API as a property.
You just call -- and it's
suitably named AudioConverter
Sample Rate Converter Algorithm.
In the header file,
you'll see an enumeration of the
currently supported algorithm types.
They include linear interpolation and
a few others in addition to polyphase
that have different tradeoffs in
terms of performance for quality.
Then, once you have created and
configured your converter,
you're going to want to feed some
data into it and get some data
out of it to do the transformation
that you're looking for.
So, the AudioConverter actually provides
three separate mechanisms for doing this.
And the reason why is that
not every mechanism is
suited for your circumstance.
So, you will want to pick and choose
the most appropriate mechanism
for what you're trying to do.
The first mechanism that we have is
for simple data formats that have
very simple data flow requirements.
This is only really available for
transformation where the ratio between
the input buffer and the output buffer
is both constant and an integer.
What this comes down to, meaning,
is that when you provide an input buffer,
it has to be completely consumed to
produce exactly the output buffer.
Any other combination,
you'll get an error from AudioConverter.
from audio converter to convert buffer.
Here we see a simple loop that kind
of illustrates the calling sequence.
It's a very simplistic example,
but it kind of gets across the flow.
So basically the flow is
while you have input data,
you get a new output buffer,
and then you call AudioConvert or
ConvertBuffer with those buffers.
And previously,
by setting up the conversion,
you've already specified everything
the converter needs to know to evaluate
whether or not this call will succeed.
You'll find these calls the most
useful in the cases of doing linear
PCM to linear PCM translations.
A good example would be going from, say,
16-bit integer to 32-bit float.
So the next most common application
is when you have simple data,
but you have a much more
complex data flow to deal with.
In your application,
you might have a thread,
a producer thread that is reading data
off a disk and putting it in a queue,
or reading it from the
network or whatever,
and it's not necessarily going
to be in a position where
you're going to be able to say,
here's the input buffer,
here's the output buffer.
You're going to need more
logic involved with that.
So the AudioConvertor fill
buffer routine allows for this by
providing an input data callback.
So that will get called
whenever the converter wants
more input data to process.
Here's an example of calling
AudioConvertor fill buffer.
In this case,
the input data is completely
encapsulated inside the input data proc.
There's no actual buffer
handling about the input that
goes into making this call.
Once you define your input data proc,
you just pass it in and then
it will be called when the
converter wants data from you.
Then you'll give it to it and
the conversion will happen,
up to so that it fills up the entire
buffer that you're asking for in
your call to convert fill buffer.
Then in Jaguar,
we have a new API that we've
added to support more complex
data formats like MPEG-4 AAC,
among others.
This was the most general of
the calls in the AudioConverter.
It's there for data formats
that are much more complex than,
say, linear PCM,
or that require external packetization.
This is also the API you need to use for
interleaving and deinterleaving data.
The API call itself is called
AudioConverter Fill Complex Buffer.
Here's a simple example
of how to call it.
It looks very similar to the regular
AudioConverter fill buffer call.
The key thing to notice about this is
that AudioConverter fill complex buffer
operates in terms of packets of data.
As you recall, I mentioned that encoded
formats are almost always
dealt with in terms of packets.
This is why the API is
structured like this.
What this implies is that you
can only do I/O in terms of this
API in increments of full packets.
That's very important to consider,
especially for encoded VBR formats
where that's really the only
way to do timing on the data.
So we've also wrapped up
the AudioConverter into
an AudioUnit in Jaguar.
The AudioConverter,
the AUConverter AudioUnit is basically
something you can stick in your graph
of AudioUnits and you can feed it
data so that it can be converted
and doled out to the rest of the
graph in kind of a very unified way.
It makes integrating data into the
graph and getting it back out very easy.
I would be surprised if there aren't
most of your graphs that you end
up constructing include a converter
unit of one kind or another.
The most common example of a converter
unit is actually the output AudioUnits,
which are actually a subclass of
AUConverter AudioUnit and provide
that mechanism right at the
output stage for the easiest way
to get audio out of the system.
Also new in Jaguar,
the AudioConvertor now will
support a plug-in mechanism.
I will be speaking more tomorrow
in session 508 about AudioCodec
components and how they're written,
how they're used, and what they do.
But in the meantime,
the SDK will be available.
It's available now where now
means sometime real soon.
and it will include the Codec
APIs and a set of C++ base classes for
implementing audio codec components.
In the seed of Jaguar
that you have right now,
this stuff is not currently supported,
so you won't find it on the seed
of Jaguar that you have now.
So that's pretty much it
for the AudioConvertor.
It's kind of an introductory
to how it works.
You'll encounter it mostly in terms
of the AudioUnit Converter AudioUnit,
but it's there for separate use as well.
So next up,
I'd like to bring up Chris Rogers,
and he's going to talk a little
bit about audio spatialization.
Hi.
As Jeff Moore said,
my name is Chris Rogers,
and I'm a member of the
Core Audio team also.
I'm going to talk a bit
about 3D audio technology,
some of the stuff we've been
working on at Apple here.
I'm going to start off giving
kind of a conceptual overview
of 3D principles in general,
psychoacoustic principles
and that kind of stuff.
And then in the second part,
I'm going to go over our 3D
mixer and our reverb audio unit,
some more practical applications,
and show some demonstrations of that.
So here I just wanted to show kind
of where this top fits into the
larger scheme of Core Audio here.
And you can see in the AudioUnits section
there the 3D mixer and the reverb.
And we'll also be seeing a little
bit of the AudioUnit views that
are off to the right there.
So this diagram is... I kind of want to
make an anchor point for the whole talk,
so I'm going to spend a
little bit of time trying to
go over what I mean by this.
This isn't the only way to break down...
[Transcript missing]
So we have two types of sources.
I'm making a distinction between
more environmental type of
sounds where you want to actually
capture a spatial quality through
a microphone recording technique,
and then the guitar down there.
It represents a type of a sound
source which doesn't have any spatial
information inherent in the sound signal,
and where maybe further processing is
applied to create a spatial aspect.
I think the reproduction...
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to go over a
couple of principles,
really basic principles
of psychoacoustics,
how human beings interpret
spatial position of sounds.
I don't have time to really
go into enough detail to
really cover this thoroughly,
but I'm going to just
cover some basic stuff.
Two of the really fundamental ways
that human beings can tell the
direction of a sound source is
through interaural time difference
and interaural intensity difference.
A very simple spatialization model
can be created called spherical
head model based off that.
More advanced models can be
created that are called HRTF,
head-related transfer function.
Thank you.
After that, I'm going to talk about how
human beings interpret distance.
So, interaural time difference.
What is that?
Imagine a sound that's off to your right.
Your right ear is going to hear the
sound before your left ear does,
simply because the sound wave
arrives at the right ear sooner.
The brain is able to use that slight
delay to make a judgment on what
direction the sound is coming from.
This works only for sounds
that are below about 1,000 Hz.
So sounds coming straight ahead
hit both ears at the same time.
Also, sounds coming from straight above
do and from straight behind.
So the brain knows that the
sound is in the median plane.
But for sounds that are extremely
on one side or the other,
the delay is quite pronounced,
and we can tell the direction.
Another method that we use is called
interaural intensity difference,
and that's a frequency-dependent
intensity difference
between the two ears.
So, for example,
if once again we have a sound
coming from the right-hand side,
it will appear louder to the right
ear than it does to the left ear.
And not only is it louder,
but the left ear might hear somewhat of
a more muffled sound because the head
is blocking the high frequencies more
than it blocks the low frequencies.
and for sounds that are
above around 1,000 Hz,
the brain is able to use that information
to determine the direction of a sound.
Don't worry about the details of this,
but this is just showing that
through simple rules of geometry,
it's possible to construct a basic model
using a sphere as a model for the head.
The delay time between the two ears,
depending on the direction
that the sound hits the ears,
and also using some basic
[Transcript missing]
HRTF, or Head-Related Transfer Functions,
it's kind of related to what
I was talking about with
interaural intensity difference.
You remember when I was talking about
having one sound off to the right,
how the close ear is going
to hear a louder sound,
the left ear is going to
hear maybe a more muffled,
quieter sound.
It's quite a bit more
complicated than that,
actually.
And the outer ear,
the fine structure of the outer ear,
the complex folds of skin and so on,
act as a highly directional filter.
So depending on the direction
that the sound is coming from,
how it hits the ear,
the ear will filter that sound in a
different way through various reflections
in the skin and other things that
are going on there to create a very
unique signature of resonances and
notches in the frequency response.
And here in this diagram,
this is just an example.
I don't know what direction
the sound was coming from,
but you see a very deep notch there.
And it's possible under very
highly controlled laboratory
conditions to take probe microphones,
place them in the ear canals,
and make measurements playing
sound through a speaker at
various positions in the room,
various angles relative to the ears.
The microphones pick up the sound
and the frequency response can be
measured at these various positions,
stored in a computer and a database.
Later,
these filters can be used to filter
synthetic sound sources to create
the illusion that sounds are coming
from a particular position in space.
In fact,
it's a combination of a filter for
the right ear and the left ear.
It's the combination of that
that creates the effect.
The playback generally has to be done
on headphones for the best effect,
but it can also be done on stereo.
area speakers with certain compensation.
So how do human beings judge
how far away a sound is?
There are a couple different ways.
If you're inside,
maybe inside a large church or a hall,
one of those methods is the ratio
of direct to reverberant sound.
So if a dog is in the
very back of the hall,
very far away from you and is barking,
you're going to hear this really
kind of reverberant barking sound.
If the dog is in the same
hall but very close to you,
you're going to hear more
of a direct barking sound.
You'll still hear the reverb,
but that'll be less in the mix.
Doppler shift is in effect when
we're hearing moving sources.
So if you've ever been walking
down a sidewalk noticing the
sound of cars rushing by you,
as the car is approaching,
the pitch of the whooshing
sound of the car increases.
And then as it passes by
you and goes away from you,
the pitch goes down, it drops.
And so that's a very important
cue for judging moving sources.
And in our demonstration,
A little bit later we'll
hopefully hear that effect.
Another way that we use to
judge distance is high-frequency
drop-off due to air absorption.
It's also just intensity drop-off.
Generally,
the farther away a sound source is,
the quieter it's going to sound.
and David Koehn.
I'm going to talk about the
different types of audio services
that are available in Mac OS X.
I'm going to talk about the
different types of audio services
that are available in Mac OS X.
I'm going to talk about the
different types of audio services
that are available in Mac OS X.
I'm going to talk about the
different types of audio services
that are available in Mac OS X.
The source will span a large
angle as it's moving and
[Transcript missing]
and Diffusion is another effect, very,
very, very far away sounds,
maybe kind of diffused,
kind of reverberant in a way.
So if we think back to that
original diagram that I had up
where we had the sound sources,
the encoding, the reproduction,
and the perception,
on the left we had the sources.
And there were two types of sources.
I talked about maybe ambient
environmental sources,
the waterfall.
And I'm going to call these intrinsic
sources and use microphones to
record these types of sounds.
And there are various
microphone recording techniques.
And in order to hear the spatial effect,
there's little or no further
processing necessary.
You can just play it
back on the speakers,
essentially.
And then the second type of source I'm
going to talk about is I'm going to call
synthetic or mono or dry recorded source.
In order to create a spatial quality,
we need to do some kind
of synthetic processing,
some kind of digital signal processing,
in order to locate it in space
or make it sound like it's in
some kind of acoustic space.
So for these intrinsic sources,
these environmental ambient sources,
there are a couple different
recording techniques.
One of these is called
binaural recording.
Another is using a
sound field microphone.
And then there are many other ways
that are commonly used with distantly
spaced omnidirectional microphones
or crossed directional microphones.
I'm not going to talk much
about those common methods,
but I'm going to talk a little
bit now about the first two.
Thank you.
In binaural recording,
we make use of the principle of the HRTF,
the head-related transfer function
that we talked about before.
The way that this recording
works is take a dummy head,
a mannequin's head,
with actual ears that are
molded after human ears,
and tiny little microphones
inside of the ears.
Somebody takes this head,
believe it or not,
into an environment where
there are some interesting
sounds with spatial qualities,
and makes a recording,
just a stereo recording,
and then plays back this
recording on headphones in order
to recreate the original space,
spatial effect.
Some people go so far as to have
molds taken of their own ears,
because the effect is actually better
if you make a recording with your own
ears compared with somebody else's,
because there are actually
large differences in the size
and the shape of people's ears.
This effect is highly sensitive on that.
Another interesting way of recording
spatial information is using what's
known as a sound field microphone.
That records into Ambisonics B format.
I'll talk a bit more about
Ambisonics in the next slide.
It attempts to capture the
complete 3D pressure sound field,
and it uses four microphone elements that
are very tightly spaced into one capsule.
It's a very finely jeweled
piece of equipment.
It's quite expensive,
but it can make some
really nice recordings.
So the Sound Field Microphone
records into ambisonics format.
Ambisonics is both a recording technique
using the Sound Field Microphone and
other techniques and a panning technique
to synthetically spatialize sounds.
And it aims to recreate the
original sound field using all of
the available playback speakers,
whether that be two speakers, four,
five in a surround system,
or more speakers.
It has a nice quality in that it
doesn't really require a sweet
spot for listening as other
spatialization reproduction systems do.
And as sound is being panned around,
the sound does not collapse
into a single speaker.
That's another nice principle.
Other techniques like vector-based
panning suffer from this problem,
from moving sources.
The ambisonics encoding is
a four-channel encoding,
four mono-channels.
Those channels are W,
which is an omnidirectional component.
It comes from the
omnidirectional microphone.
X is a front-back component.
Y is left-right.
Z is an up-down.
So you capture the three
dimensions plus an omni-component.
It's possible to generate these W, X, Y,
Z coordinates given a coordinate in
spherical coordinates to synthesize
the location of a synthetic source.
We're going to show that in
a demo in a little while.
Now we get on to the practical matters.
I'm going to talk about
the 3D Mixer Audio Unit.
It's an audio unit that
will ship in Jaguar.
You should come to this session
tomorrow where we talk in quite
a lot of detail about AudioUnits.
The Mixer is just another
AudioUnit and it adheres to
the same APIs and everything.
I'm not going to really
talk about the APIs today.
The Mixer takes in mono inputs.
It can take stereo inputs,
but in my demo these are all mono inputs.
It localizes each of these inputs
in three-dimensional space.
There's one output bus.
The stream format of the output
bus depends on what type of speaker
configuration you're applying to,
whether that's stereo, headphones, 5.1,
or whatever.
There's an optional reverb that's in the
3D Mixer so that we can actually have
more of a wet mix for distant sources,
as we talked about in distance effects.
Each of the inputs can be
parametrically controlled.
The first three parameters
are azimuth angle,
elevation, and distance are part of a
spherical coordinate system.
Azimuth is, say,
if I'm pointing straight ahead,
as I trace my arm out to the right,
I'm spanning positive angle
in azimuth from 0 degrees all
the way to minus 180 degrees.
And as I go to the left, it's negative.
So, say, negative 10 degrees,
negative 90, minus 180.
Elevation is just going up and down.
So straight ahead is zero degrees,
all the way down to minus 90 degrees.
And straight up is 90 degrees.
Distance is measured in meters.
It's pretty simple.
There's also an additional
parameter that's gain.
It's measured in decibels.
As most AudioUnits,
the 3D Mixer AudioUnit is
configurable through properties.
I talked about the parameters.
The playback configuration needs to
be configured through a property.
The default is stereo,
so if you know you're
playing back through stereo,
you don't have to worry about it.
There's also a setting for
the rendering algorithm.
I talked about a couple of those,
but in the next slide or two
we'll see the list of them.
Optionally, you can configure the source
to have a Doppler shift.
The playback configurations
are listed here,
and I think I've talked
about them before.
and the rendering
algorithms are listed here.
For stereo playback,
there are three different methods.
The first is equal power panning.
And this is the traditional
type of panning that you see
on a lot of mixing boards,
where you just have a control
that moves from left to right and
it moves the sound from the left
speaker to the right speaker.
When it's in the middle,
the sound comes from the center,
between the two speakers.
The algorithm using the spherical
head model is a little bit
more sophisticated than that.
It incorporates the interaural
time difference and the interaural
intensity difference using a
very simple model of the sphere,
as we saw in the picture,
to attempt to position sound.
It can work pretty well for
certain types of sources.
The third way is the most
expensive in terms of the CPU.
That's HRTF,
to actually apply these measured filters,
measured in the laboratory,
to sources to position sound over
stereo speakers or headphones,
where it works the best, actually.
For more complicated speaker
configurations like 5.1 Surround,
we have two different methods:
ambisonics method, which is what we're
going to see in the demo,
and also vector-based panning,
which is an alternate method.
So I'm going to move over to
the other machine now and see
if we can get some sounds going.
The interface is very, very simple here.
You developers can imagine your own
much more interesting looking interface,
but I think it's fine for
illustrating the principle.
All of these sources, once again,
are mono sources,
so any kind of spatial quality
is created by the mixer itself.
You should be able to hear,
in certain cases,
the Doppler shift and also distant
sources getting more muffled.
Just general spatialization type
of stuff I've been talking about.
[Transcript missing]
It can be configured as just
an ordinary stereo reverb.
That's the default configuration,
in fact.
Or a 5.1 surround reverb.
And it has various parameters: room size,
density, brightness, etc.
We'll see in a minute
some of those parameters.
So there are a couple different ways
you can use this in addition to just
an ordinary stereo reverb as people
have used in the studio forever.
There are a couple of different ways
that producers today use surround reverb.
One way is to actually have the
reverb in all of the speakers
with a separate reverberant stream
in each of the five speakers.
That's what we'll be seeing.
Another way that producers sometimes
like to use surround is to take an
ordinary stereo reverb and put the
stereo in the rear two speakers.
This could be used for this application,
too, but we're not going
to see that in a demo.
Another thing that you can do is
take a mono put it through a reverb,
[Transcript missing]
The surround reverb is an AudioUnit,
and its output format can be configured
either to five channels or two channels.
and, as I said, if it's in surround mode,
each of the five speakers will
have a separate reverberant stream.
So five independent reverb streams.
So let's have a listen.
So this is the dry sound right here.
This is the wet sound.
and David I'm going to go over
that too much because I think
that Bill's going to have some
fun with that a little bit later.
I think that might be it.
I think that's the end of my talk.
So I'd like to introduce Bill Stewart.
He'll play around a little bit
more with this 3D stuff and also
talk about some other interesting
stuff that we've got going.
[Transcript missing]
Excuse me.
I'm going to basically do a couple
more slides then we'll get to a demo.
What we decided to do with this
demo is to show you how to assemble
a processing graph of audio units.
The source of the audio that
you're going to be hearing
is coming from the DLS synth,
which is an audio unit in itself.
It's a special type of audio
unit called a music device.
It has some additional
component selectors to get a
MIDI message or MIDI raw data.
We also have an extended
protocol for turning notes on
and off and controlling them.
It gives you a much greater
flexibility than MIDI does for
scheduling note events in the synth.
In this graph we're going to take the
reverb send from the DLS device rather
than doing a reverb interpretation.
Speaker 1: I'm going to show you a
little bit of the DLS synth.
I'm going to show you the DLS synth.
I'm going to show you a
little bit of the DLS synth.
I'm internal to the DLS.
We're going to actually put it
through a multi-channel reverb as
Chris showed in his previous demo.
We'll take a dry,
then we'll mix those two,
and then we'll pass it
through an output unit.
We'll have five channels of out.
Typically with a 5.1 system,
as many of you know,
a lot of 5.1 content won't have much
content at all in the .1 channel.
A lot of systems will have what they call
a base management that will do a filter
of the signal and push frequencies,
typically at 80 Hz or below to the sub,
and then take the rest of
the feeds to the speakers.
You could also have a low
frequency effect in the system.
That's a choice you make.
[Transcript missing]
This is the flow of
the graph that we have,
just to give you some
idea of what we're doing.
The DLS synth is outputting two buses,
and on each bus it's a stereo bus.
It's the bus that you would
normally take through the reverb
and the bus that you wouldn't.
So we put that through the reverb,
and we've configured the reverb to
give us five channels of output.
And then what we want to do is to
create a mix between the dry send of
the reverb and the wet send that's
been passed through the reverb.
So we de-interleave the reverb stream.
And the three channels on that side,
my right, your left, I guess,
they're actually three mono
channels in the demo we've got now.
And then the one on this
side is a two-channel.
So the de-interleave is actually
doing a stereo de-interleave
and then three mono channels.
Both of those go into the stereo mixer.
We can adjust the volumes of those two.
That creates a stereo mix stream,
which then gets interleaved back into the
five channels that goes to the output.
So with that, I'll get Doug to come up.
And if we could have the demo
machine just on this one.
Thank you.
So this is Doug White,
in case you don't know.
Round of applause for Doug.
He's going to play some keyboard for us.
So I'm going to probably make
some horrible sounds at the
moment just to give you... Oh,
this is dry.
Have you... It's very wet.
So if I turn this to zero,
all you're hearing is a wet
mix of the reverb itself.
Can we just sort of jack up the
back two speakers in the center?
Um...
So I can change the mix of the
reverb to have both a mix between
small and large room sizes.
So if I look at the small mix first,
and I can change the mix
between the small and large
You'll get some tweaking on
some of these parameters.
Some of them you shouldn't
change in real time,
some you can.
So if you hear any of those artifacts,
that's for... you're
sort of expecting that.
Now I'm going to a fairly wet mix here.
This is the size of the wet room.
Let's do that.
You can hear that that's quite spacious,
and you've got basically the
dry signal from the reverb is
only coming from the synth,
it's coming from the left and right,
and the reverb is coming from all five.
One of the things I can do here
is actually filter the sound
that goes from the large mix,
so I can push that down,
which will make it...
The audio interface here,
that gets very muffled and it's
like a room that's got a lot of
curtains in it against a room
that would be a bit brighter.
The two views that you're seeing here,
the one on the left,
multi-channel reverb view,
this is made by a view component that is
just what we call a generic Carbon view.
What it does is it interrogates
the AudioUnit and it asks the
AudioUnit what's your parameters,
what is their range,
their default values, and so forth.
It will just interrogate any AudioUnit
and put up this view for you.
We'll be talking more about the
view stuff in tomorrow's session.
The one on the right is actually a
custom view that I've made using the
C++ base classes that we put in our SDK.
I've just created a custom
view for my mixer because I've
got two ins and one output.
Let's have a bit of fun here.
I'll stop yabbing and get
Doug to play some sounds.
[Transcript missing]
and Chris Rogers, the sound engineer,
will be joining us for a
discussion on the new Mac OS X.
So, every sound that you heard
was coming from the Mac.
All that we have in the Mac.
We decided this year,
last year we showed a device from eMagic.
It was a little USB device.
It's about this big.
It has six channels of out, two in.
This year we thought we'd not want to
show too much favouritism to any of
our vendors because we love them all.
We've got a Miniman 1010 card.
There's drivers for this on Mac OS X,
Delta 1010.
It's a PCI card.
We're just running five
channels out of the box.
That goes just straight
into the speakers.
There really is no tricks.
Nothing up my sleeve.
This is just a list of some of
the other forums that we've got.
The Feedback Forum on Friday is a
great place to come and yell at us
for all the things we've done wrong
and all the things we've done right,
hopefully.
There's a couple of sessions tomorrow
using the basic levels of the system,
both the audio and the MIDI stuff,
at 3.30.
And then at 5,
there'll be some in-depth discussions
about AudioUnits and the Codex,
how to use the AudioUnit views.
And there's a short overview of AAC,
which is also in your Jaguar seeds,
in the QuickTime session at the
same time as the Feedback Forum,
which was good scheduling, I thought.
So I think we do Q&A now.
So Chris and Jeff and
Doug will come up and...
Go to the mics.
Here's some URLs.
We have extensive developer
support in Core Audio.
We do lots of things.
We have a mailing list
that we're very active on,
and you can get details
of that at list.apple.com.
We also try to keep our
SDKs fairly up-to-date,
and we have a website,
developer.apple.com/audio,
and we're constantly tweaking that.
There you go.